---
title: "Automatic Forwarding for ECDH Curve25519 OpenPGP messages"
abbrev: "OpenPGP Forwarding"
category: info

docname: draft-wussler-openpgp-forwarding-latest
submissiontype: IETF  # also: "independent", "IAB", or "IRTF"
number:
date:
consensus: true
v: 3
area: "Security"
workgroup: "Open Specification for Pretty Good Privacy"
keyword:
 - Forwarding
 - OpenPGP
venue:
  group: "Open Specification for Pretty Good Privacy"
  type: "Working Group"
  mail: "openpgp@ietf.org"
  arch: "https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/openpgp/"
  repo: "https://github.com/wussler/draft-forwarding"

author:
 -
    fullname: Aron Wussler
    org: Proton AG
    country: Switzerland
    email: aron@wussler.it

normative:

  RFC7748:

  I-D.ietf-openpgp-crypto-refresh:

informative:

  FORWARDING:
    target: http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-981-16-6890-6_12
    title: OpenPGP Email Forwarding Via Diverted Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman Key Exchanges
    author:
      - name: Francisco Vial-Prado
      - name: Aron Wussler
    date: March 2021

  EUROCRYPT:
    target: http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/BFb0054122
    title: Divertible Protocols and Atomic Proxy Cryptography
    author:
      - name: Matt Blaze
      - name: Gerrit Bleumer
      - name: Martin Strauss
    date: 1998

--- abstract

An OpenPGP user may want to request their email provider to automatically forward
some or all of the messages they receive to a third party.
// It's a bit nitpicky but "offline" here is a bit vague, obviously they need
// to be online to setup the forwarding, but indeed can be offline afterwards.
Given that messages are encrypted, this requires transforming them into
ciphertexts decryptable by the intended forwarded parties, while maintaining
confidentiality and authentication.
This can be achieved using Proxy transformations on the Curve25519 elliptic
curve field with minimal changes to the OpenPGP protocol, in particular no
change is required on the sender side.
In this document we implement the forwarding scheme described in {{FORWARDING}}.

--- middle

# Introduction

An OpenPGP user might be interested in forwarding their email to
another user without interacting or delegating decryption.
// Also here, "without interacting" may need to be clarified (i.e. obviously they
// need to interact to setup the forwarding, but not after that).
In this document we outline the changes necessary to the OpenPGP protocol to safely allow:

  - Recipients to delegate trust to third parties to read their messages;

  - MTAs to act as cryptographic Proxies and transform select messages;

  - Forwardees to read the transformed email.

This is achieved using a BBS-like transformation {{EUROCRYPT}} on the ECDH
// Is there a less cryptic name for this? This might not mean much to people,
// and also for me the primary association of "BBS" is "BBS signatures", though
// it seems these are a different B, B and S :)
encryption algorithm using Curve25519.
It requires a proxy to multiply the ephemeral ECDH value by a known factor on
the elliptic curve field, and the forwardee to alter the Key Derivation Function
(KDF) when computing the Key Encryption Key (KEK) in a Public Key Encrypted
Session Key Packet (PKESK).

Security is provided as long as there is no collusion involving the Proxy,
i.e. we consider that the MTA that takes care of the forwarding is a semi-trusted
proxy that is not able to decrypt.

# Conventions and Definitions

{::boilerplate bcp14-tagged}

# Terminology

**Sender**: The person who originally sends the email. They are no active part in
this protocol as this forwarding scheme is transparent to them and they are
unaware such transformation is being done.

**Recipient**: The intended recipient of the email, as specified by the sender.
They delegate the trust by setting up the protocol.
// I would call this the "Forwarder", as in a forwarding context "recipient" can
// be ambiguous.

**Forwardee**: The person who receives the forwarded email.

**Forwardee subkey**: An OpenPGP encryption subkey generated by the recipient for
the forwardee that allows them to read the transformed messages.

**Proxy**: An OpenPGP-aware Mail Transfer Agent (MTA) with the task of forwarding
(some or all) emails intended for the forwarder to the forwardee.

**Proxy parameter**: A parameter that enables the proxy to transform a message from
being decryptable with one key, to being decryptable with another key.
// The specifics of what this parameter is should be defined later, this is just
// to define the terminology.

# Description of the protocol

In this section we'll provide an illustration of the overall protocol.

>   NON-NORMATIVE EXPLANATION
>
>   The scenario we address is the following: Bob (the recipient) wants to allow Charles (the forwardee) to decrypt email that was originally encrypted to Bob’s public key without having access to Bob’s private key or any online interaction. Naturally, MTAs (the Proxies) should not have the ability to read the contents of such messages. To achieve this, the protocol requires to be set up: First, Bob generates two  secret elements, a regular secret key, and a proxy factor `K`; second, Bob securely transfers the key to Charles and the proxy factor to the trusted MTA.
>   With the proxy factor, the MTA gains the ability to transform any PGP message encrypted to Bob’s public key into another PGP message that can be decrypted with the newly generated private key, which is now held by Charles. At the same time, the MTA cannot decrypt the message, nor transform it to another public key. Upon participating in ECDH key exchanges, proxies need to store one random field element and two OpenPGP Key IDs per forwarding, and compute a single scalar multiplication on the elliptic curve per forwarded ciphertext.
>   In the following illustration, we show an example with a sender (Alice), a recipient (Bob), multiple direct forwardees (Charles and Daniel), and one indirect forwardee (Frank).
>   The proxy transformations are done by the two MTAs using the proxy transformation parameters `K_BC`, `K_BD`, and `K_DF`. This transforms the Public Key Encrypted Session Key Packet `P_B` into `P_C`, `P_D`, and `P_F`, while the Symmetrically Encrypted Data `c` is not transformed.

                               MTA 1
    ┌─────────┐          ┌──────────────┐           ┌─────────┐
    │         │ (P_B, c) │              │ (P_B, c)  │         │
    │  Alice  ├──────────┼─┬────────────┼──────────►│   Bob   │
    │         │          │ │            │           │         │
    └─────────┘          │ │            │           └─────────┘
                         │ │            │
                         │ │  ┌──────┐  │           ┌─────────┐
                         │ │  │      │  │ (P_C, c)  │         │
                         │ ├─►│ K_BC ├──┼──────────►│ Charles │
                         │ │  │      │  │           │         │
                         │ │  └──────┘  │           └─────────┘
                         │ │            │
                         │ │  ┌──────┐  │           ┌─────────┐
                         │ │  │      │  │ (P_D, c)  │         │
                         │ └─►│ K_BD ├──┼────────┬─►│ Daniel  │
                         │    │      │  │        │  │         │
                         │    └──────┘  │        │  └─────────┘
                         │              │        │
                         └──────────────┘        │
                                                 │
                           ┌─────────────────────┘
                           │
                           │
                         ┌─┼────────────┐
                         │ │            │
                         │ │  ┌──────┐  │           ┌─────────┐
                         │ │  │      │  │ (P_F, c)  │         │
                         │ └─►│ K_DF ├──┼──────────►│  Frank  │
                         │    │      │  │           │         │
                         │    └──────┘  │           └─────────┘
                         │              │
                         └──────────────┘
                               MTA 2

In this document we define the protocol for a single instance, but the same
procedure can be applied to multiple recipients independently.
Each instance MUST have an independent instantiation, generating fresh
keys and computing separate proxy transformation parameters.

## Key Flag 0x40 {#flag-forwarding}

The key flag 0x40 is added to the first octet of the key flags (Table 12 of {{I-D.ietf-openpgp-crypto-refresh}}).
It indicates that the key may be used to decrypt forwarded communications.

This is intended to prevent implementations unaware of forwarding keys from using this key for
direct encryption, and thus generating unreadable messages.

An implementation SHOULD NOT export public subkeys with key flag 0x40.
A public key directory SHOULD NOT accept subkeys with key flag 0x40.

Keys with this flag MUST have the forwarding KDF parameters version 0xFF
defined in {{generating-forwarding-key}}.

# Setting up a forwarding instance

This section describes how to compute a proxy transformation parameter and a forwardee subkey
for a v4 OpenPGP certificate with a Curve25519 encryption-only subkey.

The original key MUST have an ECDH subkey (algorithm ID 18, as defined in Section 9.1 of
{{I-D.ietf-openpgp-crypto-refresh}}) with only the 0x04 (encrypt communications)
and/or 0x08 (encrypt storage) key flags set (as defined in Section 5.2.3.26 of
{{I-D.ietf-openpgp-crypto-refresh}}).
// Very nitpicky but I find these references hard to read if they're intermixed
// with the rest of the text, and also have a comma in them, so I would put them
// in parentheses as done here (but I've left the others alone).
This subkey MUST NOT be revoked and it SHOULD be the most recently generated one,
so that the sender implementation will prefer it to encrypt messages.
// It is not actually defined in the crypto refresh which subkey should be used
// if multiple subkeys are acceptable. In OpenPGP.js, we actually use the first
// valid subkey (in the order they appear in the key), not the most recent one.
// Furthermore, it's not obvious that the most recently generated one (if you
// define that to mean the latest generated one that was generate in the past)
// will always remain the one that implementations choose, even if it is now,
// for example it may expire and another subkey (with a creation date currently
// in the future) may start to be used.
// So, it may be better advice, generically speaking, to either generate a proxy
// parameter and forwardee key for every subkey, or check that there is only one
// (non-revoked) encryption subkey.

## Generating the forwardee key {#generating-forwarding-key}

The implementation MUST generate a fresh OpenPGP certificate with only a Curve25519
encryption subkey.
This key SHOULD have the identity of the forwardee in the user ID.
// While reading this I realized it might make more sense to let the forwardee generate
// the primary key and subkey binding signature (and send them only the subkey packet).
// That way, the forwardee makes sure that the key flags are correct (after all, they
// have more to lose if they're wrong, so they'd have to check them anyway if the forwarder
// generates them, so this would simplify things). And also it means they can control
// the primary key flags as well, and for example omit the signing (and certifying)
// flags, to make sure that they don't accidentally use the key to sign anything.
// Finally, even if they do, it's less of a catastrophe since they then generated
// the primary key themselves, instead of letting the forwarder insert a (primary)
// key into their keyring.
// It does mean that this section should be split up into generating the forwardee
// subkey and (accepting the forwarding and) generating the forwardee primary key.
// I think that's anyway a good thing as some of the text in "Forwarding messages"
// should go there as well.

The forwardee subkey MUST have the following Key Flags,
defined in {{I-D.ietf-openpgp-crypto-refresh}} Section 5.2.3.26, in the subkey binding signature:

  - 0x10 - The private component of this key may have been split by a secret-sharing mechanism.

  - 0x40 - This key may be used for forwarded communications.

Furthermore the flag 0x10 MAY be added to the existing recipient encryption subkey, if the
implementation desires to make the forwarding known to other parties.

The forwardee encryption subkey MUST contain the following variable-length field
containing KDF parameters, which is formatted as follows, differing from
{{I-D.ietf-openpgp-crypto-refresh}}, Section 12.5:

  - A one-octet size of the following fields; values 0 and 0xFF are reserved for future extensions,

  - A one-octet value 0xFF, indicating a fingerprint replacement.

  - A one-octet hash function ID used with a KDF.

  - A one-octet algorithm ID for the symmetric algorithm used to wrap the
  symmetric key used for the message encryption; see {{I-D.ietf-openpgp-crypto-refresh}} Section 12.5
  for details.

  - A 20-octet version 4 key fingerprint to be used in the KDF.

The forwardee subkey MUST be communicated securely to the forwardee.
The forwardee may accept the forwarding instantiation by generating a key
with the forwardee subkey (...)
// Additional guidance is needed here about how to store the key.
// See also the comments under "Decrypting forwarded messages".

## Computing the proxy parameter

Given the the recipient and forwardee encryption subkeys, the recipient's
implementation MUST compute the proxy transformation parameter as specified.

    //   Implements ComputeProxyPameter( dB, dC );
    //   Input:
    //   dB - the recipient's private key integer
    //   dC - the forwardee's private key integer
    //   n - the size of the field of Curve25519

    k = dB/dC mod n
    return k

The value n is defined in {{RFC7748}} as:

    2^252 + 0x14def9dea2f79cd65812631a5cf5d3ed

Converted to hex:

    10 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
    14 de f9 de a2 f7 9c d6 58 12 63 1a 5c f5 d3 ed

The value k is then encoded as little-endian in a 32-byte octet string, and
referred as proxy transformation parameter.

The proxy transformation parameter MUST be communicated securely to the MTA
acting as proxy.
The proxy MUST safely store it in a way that is not accessible by other parties.
The proxy MUST delete the parameter when the forwarding is revoked.

# Forwarding messages

When forwarding a message, the proxy MUST parse the PKESK and check whether
the fingerprint embedded in the PKESK, as specified in {{I-D.ietf-openpgp-crypto-refresh}} Section 5.1.2,
matches the recipient's subkey fingerprint designated for forwarding.
// This is specific to v5 PKESKs, you should also (or instead) specify what to do for v3 PKESKs,
// since this is for encrypting to v4 keys, that is more likely to be used.
If the value differs, the proxy SHOULD NOT transform the message.
If the key ID is set to version 0 for "anonymous recipient", see {{I-D.ietf-openpgp-crypto-refresh}}
Section 5.1.6, the proxy MAY transform all PKESKs in a message that it is
supposed to forward. In this case it SHOULD leave all key IDs unaltered to 0.

The proxy MUST then check that the ephemeral public key does not belong to a small subgroup
of the curve.
This is done by parsing the MPI of an EC point as specified in {{I-D.ietf-openpgp-crypto-refresh}}
Section 5.1.5, multiplying by the integer 0x08.
If this multiplication returns 0 the proxy MUST abort the forwarding and it MAY
notify the sender, for instance by bouncing the message.
If this multiplication returns any non-zero value the proxy can proceed with
the transformation.

    //   Implements TransformMessage( eB, k );
    //   Input:
    //   eB - the ECDH ephemeral public key decoded from the PKESK
    //   k - the proxy transformation parameter retrieved from storage

    if 0x08 * eB == 0 then abort

    eC = k * eB
    return eC

The proxy MUST change the value of a non-null fingerprint in the PKESK
to the forwardee's key fingerprint.
The proxy MUST change the value of the EC ephemeral public key in the algorithm
specific data of the PKESK to the the encoding of eC, as described in
{{I-D.ietf-openpgp-crypto-refresh}}, Section 9.2.

# Decrypting forwarded messages

A forwardee accepts a forwarding instance by adding the forwardee subkey, flagged
with 0x40, to their private keys' keyring.
// I wouldn't recommend adding it to their keyring without further qualification.
// They should store it separately, and only use it to decrypt forwarded messages.
The implementation MAY group several forwarding subkeys under a single private
primary key, for a more compact and efficient storage.
// I'm also not sure if this is necessary or advisable. It would be best to store
// the forwardee key in a way that it's connected to the forwarding from that
// specific forwarder, so that the key is only used to decrypt messages sent to
// that forwarder. This would require storing them separately.

Upon receiving a message encrypted to a subkey flagged as 0x40, the implementation
MUST replace the fingerprint in the ECDH KDF with the fingerprint specified in
the subkey KDF parameters.

The implementation SHOULD inform the user that the message was originally sent
to a different recipient and forwarded to them.
If the implementation does so it MAY ignore the intended recipient fingerprint
signature subpacket, as described in {{I-D.ietf-openpgp-crypto-refresh}},
Section 5.2.3.33.

# Security Considerations

## Collusion between Proxy and Forwardee

It is important to note that any forwardee that colludes with the proxy
can recover the forwarder's encryption subkey's secret key material.
This allows the colluding parties to decrypt all messages encrypted using
that subkey, even ones that weren't forwarded (for example because they
were encrypted and received before the forwarding started, or because
only a subset of received messages were forwarded).

To minimize this risk, the forwarder may want to generate a key specifically
for the duration of the forwarding.

It is to be noted that while recovering this private key may allow to decrypt other
messages, it does not allow to impersonate the forwarder's by generating valid
signatures, since key is as encryption-only subkey.
// This sentence is a bit broken, but I would just remove it entirely
// because it's not really a security consideration, and should be at least
// somewhat obvious since this entire thing is only about encryption subkeys,
// not signing keys.

A complete security analysis can be found in {{FORWARDING}}, Section 4 and
a simulation-based security proof in appendix A.

## Key Flags

The recipient's subkey used in the derivation of the proxy parameter MUST have
only the 0x04 (encrypt communications) flag as defined in {{I-D.ietf-openpgp-crypto-refresh}}
Section 5.2.3.26.
In case of collusion between the proxy and forwardee, an adversary may only be
able to decrypt other messages, but not authenticate, sign, or certify other
keys as the recipient.
// This is redundant and partially contradictory with the section about
// Generating the forwardee key, which says that the recipient may have
// 0x10 as well. I also don't see why it can't have 0x08 (encrypt storage)
// too. I would try to remove this section and merge it into the others,
// if possible.

The forwardee encryption subkey MUST be flagged with 0x40 and 0x10 only,
this will prevent other implementations from sending messages directly to this
key, causing decryption errors when using the wrong fingerprint in the KDF.
// Also this I would merge it into the (to-be-added) section about accepting
// the forwarding and generating the key and subkey binding signature.

Subkeys flagged as 0x40 MUST NOT be unflagged or reused as the private key
material is generated from a third party and therefore is not secret.

## Key rotation

It is RECOMMENDED to use short-lived encryption subkeys when forwarding messages.
This ensures that if a proxy is compromised, and the forwardee gets access to a
proxy transformation factor only a subset of the email is compromised.

## Proxy transformation factors management

When a forwarding is stopped or revoked a proxy MUST delete the stored proxy
factor to ensure that a future compromise does not retroactively endanger
older messages.
// This is redundant with the requirement in the "Computing the proxy parameter"
// section.

## Proxy transformation

The proxy MUST check that 8P is not 0, where P is the ephemeral point included
in the PKESK before performing the transformation, and if this is not satisfied
immediately abort the process.
// I would merge this into the "Forwarding messages" section.
// In general, the Security Considerations are not really the right place to
// put normative requirements. It should be more about considerations that
// are important *even when* following all the normative requirements
// laid out elsewhere, not so much about considerations that went into the
// design and normative requirements of this spec.
Failure to perform this check may leak information about the proxy parameter to
an adversary that is able to submit messages and see the applied transformation.

A proxy SHOULD also perform the multiplication on the elliptic curve with the
proxy parameter in constant time.
This prevents an adversary from timing the transformation and derive information
about the proxy parameter.
Alternatively, a proxy MAY decide to pad all the forwarded messages to a
constant delay, thus preventing such an attack from an external submitter.

## Message forwarding selection

The criteria to choose which message to forward the messages is left up to the
implementation, and may be based on reception time, sender, or any policy
that can be determined from the message metadata.
Filtering message has a security implication in case of compromise: the
messages that were not forwarded may be decrypted by an adversary that can
compute the recipient's key.
// I would merge this into the considerations about collusion above.

# IANA Considerations

The 0x40 value is to be added to the OpenPGP IANA Key Flags Extensions registry,
representing "This key may be used for forwarded communication".
The flag is defined in {{flag-forwarding}}.

A new registry "ECDH KDF type" is to be created the OpenPGP IANA registry:

  - 0x01: "Native fingerprint KDF"

  - 0xFF: "Replaced fingerprint KDF"

--- back

# Test vectors

The following test vectors are independent instances, and do not share the key
material.

## Proxy parameter

Recipient secret integer, clamped and big endian, OpenPGP wire format

    59 89 21 63 65 05 3d cf 9e 35 a0 4b 2a 1f c1 9b
    83 32 84 26 be 6b b7 d0 a2 ae 78 10 5e 2e 31 88

Forwardee secret integer, clamped and big endian, OpenPGP wire format

    68 4d a6 22 5b cd 44 d8 80 16 8f c5 be c7 d2 f7
    46 21 7f 01 4c 80 19 00 5f 14 4c c1 48 f1 6a 00

Derived proxy parameter, little-endian

    e8 97 86 98 7c 3a 3e c7 61 a6 79 bc 37 2c d1 1a
    42 5e da 72 bd 52 65 d7 8a d0 f5 f3 2e e6 4f 02

## Message transformation

Proxy parameter, little-endian

    83 c5 7c be 64 5a 13 24 77 af 55 d5 02 02 81 30
    58 60 20 16 08 e8 1a 1d e4 3f f8 3f 24 5f b3 02

Ephemeral point P, 0x40 prefixed, OpenPGP wire format

    40 aa ea 7b 3b b9 2f 5f 54 5d 02 3c cb 15 b5 0f 84
    ba 1b dd 53 be 7f 5c fa dc fb 01 06 85 9b f7 7e

Transformed point kP, 0x40 prefixed, OpenPGP wire format

    40 ec 31 bb 93 7d 7e f0 8c 45 1d 51 6b e1 d7 97 61
    79 aa 71 71 ee a5 98 37 06 61 d1 15 2b 85 00 5a

A point of order 4 on the twist of Curve25519 to test small subgroup point
detection, 0x40 prefixed, OpenPGP wire format

    40 ec ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff
    ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff 7f

## End-to-end tests

Armored recipient key

    -----BEGIN PGP PRIVATE KEY BLOCK-----

    xVgEZAdtGBYJKwYBBAHaRw8BAQdAGzrOpvCFCxQ6hmpP52fBtbYmqkPM+TF9oBei
    x9QWcnEAAQDa54PERHLvDqIMo0f03+mJXMTR3Dwq+qi5LTaflQFDGxEdzRNib2Ig
    PGJvYkBwcm90b24ubWU+wooEExYIADwFAmQHbRgJkCLL+xMJ+Hy4FiEEm77zV6Zb
    syLVIzOyIsv7Ewn4fLgCGwMCHgECGQECCwcCFQgCFgACIgEAAAnFAPwPoXgScgPr
    KQFzu1ltPuHodEaDTtb+/wRQ1oAbuSdDgQD7B82NJgyEZInC/4Bwuc+ysFgaxW2W
    gtypuW5vZm44FAzHXQRkB20YEgorBgEEAZdVAQUBAQdAeUTOhlO2RBUGH6B7127u
    a82Mmjv62/GKZMpbNFJgqAcDAQoJAAD/Sd14Xkjfy1l8r0vQ5Rm+jBG4EXh2G8XC
    PZgMz5RLa6gQ4MJ4BBgWCAAqBQJkB20YCZAiy/sTCfh8uBYhBJu+81emW7Mi1SMz
    siLL+xMJ+Hy4AhsMAAAKagEA4Knj6S6nG24nuXfqkkytPlFTHwzurjv3+qqXwWL6
    3RgA/Rvy/NcpCizSOL3tLLznwSag7/m6JVy9g6unU2mZ5QoI
    =un5O
    -----END PGP PRIVATE KEY BLOCK-----

Armored forwardee key

    -----BEGIN PGP PRIVATE KEY BLOCK-----

    xVgEZAdtGBYJKwYBBAHaRw8BAQdAcNgHyRGEaqGmzEqEwCobfUkyrJnY8faBvsf9
    R2c5ZzYAAP9bFL4nPBdo04ei0C2IAh5RXOpmuejGC3GAIn/UmL5cYQ+XzRtjaGFy
    bGVzIDxjaGFybGVzQHByb3Rvbi5tZT7CigQTFggAPAUCZAdtGAmQFXJtmBzDhdcW
    IQRl2gNflypl1XjRUV8Vcm2YHMOF1wIbAwIeAQIZAQILBwIVCAIWAAIiAQAAJKYA
    /2qY16Ozyo5erNz51UrKViEoWbEpwY3XaFVNzrw+b54YAQC7zXkf/t5ieylvjmA/
    LJz3/qgH5GxZRYAH9NTpWyW1AsdxBGQHbRgSCisGAQQBl1UBBQEBB0CxmxoJsHTW
    TiETWh47ot+kwNA1hCk1IYB9WwKxkXYyIBf/CgmKXzV1ODP/mRmtiBYVV+VQk5MF
    EAAA/1NW8D8nMc2ky140sPhQrwkeR7rVLKP2fe5n4BEtAnVQEB3CeAQYFggAKgUC
    ZAdtGAmQFXJtmBzDhdcWIQRl2gNflypl1XjRUV8Vcm2YHMOF1wIbUAAAl/8A/iIS
    zWBsBR8VnoOVfEE+VQk6YAi7cTSjcMjfsIez9FYtAQDKo9aCMhUohYyqvhZjn8aS
    3t9mIZPc+zRJtCHzQYmhDg==
    =lESj
    -----END PGP PRIVATE KEY BLOCK-----

Proxy parameter K

    04 b6 57 04 5f c9 c0 75 9c 5f d1 1d 8c a7 5a 2b
    1a a1 01 c9 c8 96 49 0b ce c1 00 f9 41 e9 7e 0e

Plaintext

    Message for Bob

Encrypted message

    -----BEGIN PGP MESSAGE-----

    wV4DFVflUJOTBRASAQdAdvFLPtXcvwSkEwbwmnjOrL6eZLh5ysnVpbPlgZbZwjgw
    yGZuVVMAK/ypFfebDf4D/rlEw3cysv213m8aoK8nAUO8xQX3XQq3Sg+EGm0BNV8E
    0kABEPyCWARoo5klT1rHPEhelnz8+RQXiOIX3G685XCWdCmaV+tzW082D0xGXSlC
    7lM8r1DumNnO8srssko2qIja
    =uOPV
    -----END PGP MESSAGE-----

Transformed message

    -----BEGIN PGP MESSAGE-----

    wV4DB27Wn97eACkSAQdA62TlMU2QoGmf5iBLnIm4dlFRkLIg+6MbaatghwxK+Ccw
    yGZuVVMAK/ypFfebDf4D/rlEw3cysv213m8aoK8nAUO8xQX3XQq3Sg+EGm0BNV8E
    0kABEPyCWARoo5klT1rHPEhelnz8+RQXiOIX3G685XCWdCmaV+tzW082D0xGXSlC
    7lM8r1DumNnO8srssko2qIja
    =pVRa
    -----END PGP MESSAGE-----

# Contributors
{:numbered="false"}

Daniel Huigens (Proton AG)

# Acknowledgments
{:numbered="false"}

A heartfelt thank you to Francisco Vial-Prado for the work on designing and
proving the forwarding scheme.
We also thank Lara Bruseghini, Ilya Chesnokov, and Eduardo Conde Pena for their
collaboration and help in applying the scheme to OpenPGP.
